
If we were to change the ruby file in order to change the text color, for example - this would be a bother. We would have to rebuild everything and rerun, etc.

One naive solution would be to just `docker exec` into the container and then use `vi` if we have it, if not - maybe use
`sed -i s/<STRING_TO_REPLACE>/<REPLACEMENT_STRING>`. That's not optimal..

Another option is to use a volume to mount local files into the container: `docker run -d -v <DIR_IN_HOST> <DIR_IN_CONTAINER> ..`.
Afterwards, the changes made locally will show up in the container.

---
Volumes:

They are not synchronization/copying mechanisms between the host and the container.

They are *bind mounts*. Which is a kernel mechanism that associates one path with another. Kind of like symbolic links.

BTW, changes made on the host OR on the container will be visible on the other side. Because under the hood, it's the same file anyway.

---

More on volumes: 

- bypass the copy-on-write system to obtain native disk I/O performance.
- share a directory between multiple containers.
- share a directory between the host and a container.
- share a single file between the host and a container.
- remote storage and custom storage with volume drivers.
 
Declare them:

We can use `VOLUME` instruction inside a Dockerfile. This creates a special directory in the container.

We can use the `-v` tag at runtime

The I/O performance on a volume is exactly the same as the one in the Docker host.
* Bear in mind that when you `docker commit` the contents of the volume are not brought into the resulting image.

---

Compose: 

Automatically pulls images, builds containers and starts them. It can run the containers in the BG or FG and also has a plethora of Docker options.

You describe a set of containers in a YAML file called `docker-compose.yaml`
After that, you run `docker-compose up`.

You also have `docker compose stop` or `docker compose kill`, etc.

The thing is, even in the yaml file- the directions map out to docker commands that we are used to. So, for example, `build: <DIR>` is analog to `docker build .` or `volume: <SRC>:<DEST>` is analog to `docker -v <SRC>:<DEST>`. If you know the docker commands, they kind of map to that.

Compose files do have some neat features added like adding multiple services cleanly and setting up the containers the way you want, building from relative paths and a bunch more.

With the `-p` you can change the project name so that you don't have to make a new directory. Pay attention if you want to run multiple apps side by side (same ones or diff versions) so you don't have hardcoded things like ports.

Also, compose puts all the services in the same network - so they will be able to communicate with each other.

---

The exercise is taken from https://github.com/jpetazzo/namer

  