Advanced instructions:

`ONBUILD` lets you add instructions that will be executed when the image is used as a base for another one. Say you want to check if the image was constructed less than one week ago, or if the build dir has a certain dependency file, etc.

`LABEL` adds arbitrary metadata to the image.

`STOPSIGNAL` sets the signal for `docker stop` - which is `TERM` by default.

`ARG` defines build-time variables.

`SHELL` sets the default program to use for string-syntax `RUN`, `CMD`, etc.

---

Config:

- You can use cmd-line parameters. Is nice for mandatory parameters- without which the service cannot start.
- You can use environment variables. Which is convenient for services instantiated many times. Since you can provide default values it's a nice way to set optional parameters.
- Baked in configuration. In this way, the config is added to the image. You can also add another `.conf` file (extend it) or replace the current one quite easily.

---

Logs:

- You can directly write to std output and error.
- Write to local files
- For UNIX systems you can use syslog.
- Use a logging service - common in large applications.

All these methods are available with containers.

Look into the ELK stack. 

---

Managing multiple physical/virtual resources becomes quite complex. I mean just compare having 5 hypervisors that have the same specs - scheduling is quite easy there. 

If you have 1000+ with different specs and you have multiple request per day to construct up to 50 VMs with different characteristics this becomes a bother. SO what hypervisor you use for what VM?  

And if you have machines that are both physical and/or virtual and you add to that containers which you are trying to put on the machine..

It's plain to see now why you would need an orchestrator.

The orchestrator deals with:

- Network connectivity between containers
- Load balancing
- Failure recovery
- Rolling out new versions


Kubernetes is the de facto standard but there are other ones like Nomad(from Hashicorp), Mesos(from Apache), Swarm, etc. 